You admire a character for trying more than for their successes.
Keep in mind what's interesting to you as an audience member, not what's fun to do as a writer (they can be very different).
Trying for theme is important, but you won't see what the story is actually about until you're at the end of it; now rewrite the story.
Once upon a time there was ___. And every day, ___. One day ___. Because of that, ___. Because of that, ___. Until finally, ___.
Simplify. Focus. Combine characters. Hop over detours. You'll feel like you're losing valuable stuff, but it sets you free.
What is your character good at; comfortable with? Throw the polar opposite at them. Challenge them. How do they deal?
Come up with your ending before you figure out your middle. Endings are hard; get yours working up front.
Finish your story; let go of it even if it's not perfect. Move on, and do better next time.
When you're stuck, make a list of what wouldn't happen next; often the material to get you unstuck will show up.
Pull apart the stories you like. What you like in them is a part of you; you've got to recognize it before you can use it.
Putting it on paper lets you start fixing it. If it stays in your head a perfect idea, you'll never share it with anyone.
Discount the first thing that comes to mind, and the second, third, fourth, fifth. Get the obvious out of the way, and surprise yourself.
Give your characters opinions. Passive/malleable might seem likable to you as you write, but it's poison to the audience.
Why must you tell this story? What's the belief that your story feeds off of? That's the heart of it.
If you were your character, in this situation, how would you feel? Honesty lends credibility to unbelievable situations.
What are the stakes? Give us reason to root for the character. What happens if they doesn't succeed? Stack the odds against the character.
No work is ever wasted. If it's not working, let go and move on; it'll come back around to be useful later.
You have to know yourself and know the difference between doing your best and fussing (story is testing, not refining).
Coincidences to get characters into trouble are great; coincidences to get them out of it are cheating.
Exercise: Take the building blocks of a movie you dislike. How would you rearrange them into something you do like?
You have to identify with your situation/characters; you can't just write something "cool." What would make you act that way?
What's the essence of your story? The most economical telling of it? If you know that, you can build out from there.